DOCS-2901: Document VIBANs (#2050)
MultiSafepay/docs: content/payments/features/VIBAN/_index.md

---
title: 'Virtual IBANs'
weight: 95
meta_title: "Virtual IBANs - MultiSafepay Docs"
logo: '/svgs/Banks.svg'
layout: 'single'
short_description: "Collect bank transfers and direct debits in your own bank account."
url: '/features/virtual-ibans/'
---

> A virtual international bank account number (VIBAN) removes MultiSafepay branding from the customer experience for [Bank Transfer](/payment-methods/bank-transfer/) and [SEPA Direct Debit]((/payment-methods/sepa-direct-debit/)), and helps you better manage payments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A virtual international bank account number (VIBAN) removes MultiSafepay branding from the customer experience for [Bank Transfer](/payment-methods/bank-transfer/) and [SEPA Direct Debit](/payment-methods/sepa-direct-debit/), and helps you better manage payments. 
```

> A virtual international bank account number (IBAN) routes incoming [Bank Transfer](/payment-methods/bank-transfer/) and [SEPA Direct Debit](/payment-methods/sepa-direct-debit/) payments into your business bank account, instead of MultiSafepay collecting them on your behalf. It is not itself connected to an actual bank account.   

Reviewer 2: The VIBAN doesn't route funds to the merchants bank account. It's virtual in the sense that it's a separate IBAN, but it's routing funds to the same MultiSafepay derdengeldenrekening as they'd otherwise flow. Legally and practically MultiSafepay is still collecting. However, to the customer it seems like the merchant is.

Author: Oh I see! Thanks so much, I will make some clarifications.

A VIBAN is a dummy IBAN number in your company name. It is not connected to an actual bank account and simply routes incoming funds to MultiSafepay's account to collect. However, MultiSafepay's name no longer appears in payment instructions or on customer bank statements.   

## How it works

For bank transfers, customers receive your VIBAN details in payment instructions instead of MultiSafepay's IBAN, in both [payment pages](/payment-pages/) and emails (including for the [direct flow](/payment-methods/bank-transfer/payment-flow/)). Your company name appears on the customer's bank statement. Customers don't see MultiSafepay's name at any point and enjoy a cohesive experience with your brand.

> For direct debits, there is no change for customers when completing payment. Your company name appears on bank statements, which increases brand recognition and trust, and can reduce [chargebacks](/payment-methods/sepa-direct-debit/overview/#chargebacks).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For direct debits, there is no change for customers when completing payment. However, your company name appears on bank statements, which increases brand recognition and trust, and can reduce [chargebacks](/payment-methods/sepa-direct-debit/overview/#chargebacks).
```

> You can link a VIBAN to your MultiSafepay account, or to a specific site.

Reviewer 2: Maybe 'linking' is a bit misleading in this context. All VIBANs are linked to an account, as the funds all flow into the account's EURO balance. Site-level VIBANs allow for compound names specific to the website, which can be useful when a merchant operates multiple websites from the same business and wants to show the website name on bank statements rather than the business' name. 

Example: Merchant 'Wholesale inc.' has website onderbroeken.nl and sokken.nl and decides to create two VIBANs so that onderbroeken.nl's customers see Onderbroeken.nl on their bank statements rather than Wholesale inc.

Or perhaps Wholesale inc. has two separate reconciliation departments (to match unmatched payments). In which case they need two VIBANs to separately match their unmatched payments. 

```suggestion
You can create a VIBAN for your MultiSafepay account, or for a specific site.
```

- [MultiSafepay payment pages](/payment-pages/)
- Emails containing payment instructions (including for the [direct flow](/payment-methods/bank-transfer/payment-flow/))

### SEPA Direct Debit 

There is no change for the customer, as they don't see your virtual IBAN when completing payment. But your company name displays on their bank statement instead of MultiSafepay's name. This increases brand recognition and trust, which can reduce [chargebacks](/payment-methods/sepa-direct-debit/overview/#chargebacks).

## Matching payments

> Most incoming payments are automatically matched the relevant order in your account. However, if the customer accidentally provides incorrect information or pays the wrong amount, payments need to be matched manually. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most incoming payments are automatically matched to the relevant order in your account. However, if the customer accidentally provides incorrect information or pays the wrong amount, payments need to be matched manually. 
```

> With a virtual IBAN, you can resolve unmatched payments in your MultiSafepay dashboard, instead of MultiSafepay doing it on your behalf (see [Resolving unmatched Bank Transfer payments](/bank-transfer/unmatched-payments/)).

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should emphasize that merchants need to request this functionality separately. By default, we'll still match payments for merchants with VIBANs.

> You need to request this functionality when applying for your VIBAN.

Reviewer 2: I believe this functionality is automatically activated when a VIBAN is created for an account/site. However, I'm not 100% sure so I'll leave that up for Ross to review.

| Amount too low | Match and make up deficit from your MultiSafepay balance | The order status changes to **Completed**. {{< br >}} A new order linked to the original order is created to debit the deficit from your balance: {{< br >}} - The order is flagged as `viban-charge-balance`. {{< br >}} - An explanation appears on the **Transaction details** page under **Notes**. |
|  | Match and collect deficit | The order status changes to **Completed**. {{< br >}} A new order linked to the original order is created for the outstanding amount. |
| Refund requested | Refund in full | A refund order linked to the original order is created and the payment is refunded. |
| Lump payment | Match the payment to multiple orders | Divide the payment across multiple orders and their status changes to **Completed**. {{< br >}} If there is any excess after all relevant orders are matched, you can refund, reserve, or keep the excess (see above). {{< br >}} If there are not enough funds for all relevant orders, you can make up the deficit from your MultiSafepay balance or create a new order for the outstanding amount (see above).| 

## Refunds and payouts

> You can also make [refunds](/refunds/) and [payouts](/account/payouts/) via Bank Transfer using your virtual IBAN, managed from your MultiSafepay dashboard. Your company name appears on bank statements instead of MultiSafepay's name.

Reviewer 2: In the context of a pay out I wouldn't necessarily use Bank Transfer as (to me) it refers to our payment method. Instead I'd phrase it something like "Your company name appears on bank statements of payouts to your bank account." And "Your company name appears on your customer's bank statements of refunds."

Author: Ah, yes that's how I understood the Confluence documentation too. Fixed.

## Activation

Email a request for a virtual IBAN to <sales@multisafepay.com>

Include in the request:

> - Whether you want to use the refunds and matching tool in your dashboard

Reviewer 2: Ahh alright this covers the matching tool. 

So merchants need to request for their VIBANs compound name to show on refunds? I though that happened by default too.

Author: I've made some changes to clarify this.

- What company name you want to appear on bank statements

> - Which direction of funds to enable: credit, debit, or both

Reviewer 2: What's meant by this? It isn't quite clear to me

Author: I think I've only just understood it too... Unconscious brain overnight! Whether you want to be able to:
    - Receive funds only
    - Refund/pay out funds only
    - Receive and refund/pay out funds

>     - Refunds tool

Reviewer 2: Is this a different refunds tool than dashboards refunds, or is it the same tool but with the VIBAN on the customer's bank statements? Perhaps another one for Ross to review as I can't say with certainty.

> - Whether you want to be able to:

Reviewer 2: I guess what merchants need to specify is whether they wish to pay out from their VIBAN or MultiSafepay's regular IBAN, and whether they wish to debit customer's from their VIBAN or MultiSafepay's regular IBAN, right? 

I guess its quite obvious that they will be able to receive and pay out funds regardless, but maybe it's worthwhile making that more explicit (at the cost of brevity), what do you think? 
```suggestion
- Whether you want to use the VIBAN to:
```
